>> Hi, I'm Chris Marcellino, an iPhone
Software Engineer and I'm here today to talk
about the Apple Push Notification Service.
But before we get started I'm curious,
how many of you are familiar
with the new version of the Push Service by a show of hands?
Oh wow, OK, great.
Well, for those of you that raised your
hand, I'm going to cover some best practices
and some advanced troubleshooting tips for you.
But for the rest of you, before the end of this
hour you'll know everything that you need to know
to start sending notifications across the service.
So let's get started.
So today we're going to talk about how you can make your
apps network connected even when they're not running.
Now this is huge because this is going to give
your apps a whole new angle in the app store.
We're also going to talk about how you can get
users the information they want when they want it
and let them know that there is more waiting for them.
And finally we're going to do all this
while minimizing the impact on battery life.
So in this presentation we're going to cover the basics on
how to push sounds, badges, and alerts across the service,
server protocols and certificates, as well as some best
practices and some advanced troubleshooting techniques.
So on the logistical side this service works both
over cell and WiFi connections and it's available free
to any member of the iPhone Development Program.
Now this is huge, you don't need to deal with carriers,
you don't need to get any advanced certifications.
Right out of the box you can start
sending notifications across the service.
And finally, using this service is incredibly easy.
All of you are going to be able
to send notifications to iPhones.
So let's cover some background.
iPhone OS 3.0 maintains one persisting connection
from the device to the Apple Push Notification Service
and this single connection is used by all applications
on the iPhone to receive notifications from the service.
This centralized design preserves battery life as well
as maximizes the performance of the
Apple Push Notification Service.
To start using this service you're
going to need a few things.
First you're going to need a server.
Now it's important to understand the notifications that
are sent from a service that is external to the service
and is simply passed through the service down to the iPhone.
Next, you're going to need a certificate that
uniquely identifies your application to the service.
And finally you'll need a new provisioning
profile that test your applications on the iPhone
when you're debugging them and developing them
So once you have all these things, you can
start sending notifications across the service.
Doing so involves four simple steps.
So first your iPhone application on the
iPhone needs to tell iPhone OS that you wish
to start receiving notifications from the service.
It does this by using UIKit API that in turn tells the
Apple Push Notification Service that a given instance
of your application on a specific
device wishes to receive notifications.
Second, once you've successfully registered your application
receives something back that's called the device token
which uniquely identifies your device to the service.
You then communicate this token to your
server where your server associate this token
with the unique user of your application.
Later you'll use this token to start
sending notifications to the service.
Step 3, your server sends those
notifications using that device token.
And finally step 4, iPhone OS receives those notifications,
displays the sounds, badges, and alerts that you send
in the notification payload on the iPhone OS.
So let's look at step 1 in detail.
[ Pause ]
>> So step 1 is pretty simple, use the
UIKit API on the device in your application,
tell iPhone OS that you want to register for notifications.
To do this step all you need to do is call UIApplication
registerForRemoteNotificationTypes passing the types
of notifications that you wish to receive on the device.
Once you've done this step you will receive
one of two different delegate callbacks.
The first if you succeed is UIApplicationDelegate
application
didRegisterForRemoteNotificationsWithDeviceToken.
Now you get back that opaque device token, an NS data
that uniquely identifies the current device
to the Apple Push Notification Service.
But if you fail you'll get UIApplicationDelegate application
didFailToRegisterForRemoteNotificationsWithError.
In this case it will only happen if you have
provisioning profile troubles or bad entitlements,
or if you're using the iPhone Simulator
because we don't have support
for the Push Notification Service in the Simulator.
So just fix whatever is wrong with
your provisioning profile entitlements,
reregister and you'll get back the first callback.
So once you've succeeded and got that device token, as
I mentioned this device token is a unique identifier
which identifies the current device to
the Apple Push Notification Service.
But one thing to note, if it is
distinct from UIDevice deviceIdentifier
because unlike the deviceIdentifier the Apple Push
Notification Service device token gets erased whenever the
device is wiped for security reasons.
And finally if you don't have the token and memory
just use the registration API to get the token.
There is no cost in calling the registration API.
Call as many times as you want.
Don't store it in your documents or preferences
because we don't want it getting out of date
with what the iPhone OS has for the device token.
There's a couple other optional delegates
and callbacks you might want to implement.
The first is UIApplicationDelegate
application:didReceiveRemoteNotification.
Now you'll use this notification if you want to receive
notifications when your application is already running
since if your app is already running, iPhone
OS does nothing for these notifications.
Instead use these callbacks to get that payload
that you sent and display some type of UI
to let the users know that notification was received.
Also we have a method as opposed to a delegate callback
called UIApplication enabledRemoteNotificationTypes
which is a method to let you see what types of notifications
the user has elected to receive in the centralized settings.
We'll talk about both of these more
in depth later in the presentation.
[ Pause ]
>> So at step 2, you take that device token that you
got after registering and you send it to your server
where at your server, you associate it with a specific
user of your application because you'll later going to need
that token to send notifications to the service.
Now one very important thing about step
2 is that step 2 is completely up to you.
iPhone OS does no part of this step for you so using
whatever means you want, send this token to your server.
That's all there is for step 2.
Now at step 3, this is where it gets interesting.
Step 3 is where you start sending notifications from
your server to the Apple Push Notification Service.
But before we talk about how to send notifications,
I want to make sure that everyone
here is familiar with what JSON is.
So JSON as many of you know is short for JavaScript
Object Notation but you don't need to know
or write any JavaScript to use
the push notification service.
So it's a Java-- it's an object notation that derives
from JavaScript but it's also a human readable,
compact in architectural neutral way to
represent Cocoa property lists such as NSDatas,
NSStrings, NSDictionaries, and NSNumbers.
We're going to be using JSON payloads to represent the
payloads that we sent across the push notification service.
So here is a typical JSON payload.
As I mentioned it needs to be strict JSON but also Apple
Push Notification Service device tokens are limited
to 256 bytes per notification.
So at the top level of this dictionary
there is a dictionary called aps.
This contains the alert, badge, and sounds
keys that iPhone OS displays on behalf
of your application when your application is not running.
Outside of this dictionary is reserved for your
app, put whatever keys you want in there as long
as they are valid JSON and under the 256 byte limit.
So let's look at these keys in depth.
The badge key is an integer value
in the JSON APS dictionary.
When you pass a badge you'll see on your applications icon
on the home screen the red badge that
are used when getting unread mail.
This is the same as the UIApplication application icon
badge number property that you've used in iPhone OS 2.0.
So if you pass a positive number here, it will
display a badge on your applications icon.
But if you pass any other type of value or
omit the value entirely from the dictionary,
will remove the badge from your applications icon.
The sound key is a string value which is one of two things.
Either it's the name of the file in your applications
bundle or it's the system wide reserved key default
which they're non-configurable default sound.
If you choose to put a sound file in your applications
bundle it needs to be of a supported format.
Those formats are only linear PCM, MA4, uLaw and aLaw
but not MP3, AAC or other perceptual encoding formats
since we don't want to interrupt music playback
if the user is already listening to music.
We also handle vibration automatically.
If the ringer switch on the device is set to vibrate we'll
simply vibrate the device any time we see a sound key
at all.
>> So alerts can be either strings or dictionaries but
the most common format we expect to see are strings.
We'll take the string you pass for alert and
use it to create the body of an alert message
on the iPhone home screen, or if your phone
is locked in the slide to unlock screen.
But as I mentioned there is also a
dictionary format which can be used
to localize either the alert body or the View button.
So if you pass the loc-key or loc-args keys in
your JSON payload, we'll look up the loc-key value
in your applications Localizable.strings
file in your apps bundle.
That way you can pass a value in a specific language for
each language that you support and we'll look at that key,
substituting the loc-args key into that
string to display a localized alert.
For example, if in your Spanish
Localizable.strings file you have this string,
we'll substitute in "Jen" and "iPhone" to create this alert.
So we do this substitution the same way that
you do it both on the Mac and on the rest
of iPhone OS using NSLocalizedString
and NSString stringWithFormat.
That is arguments can be ordered by localizers
using the same macros that you're used to
and we use the current system language to choose the
right Localizable.strings file out of your apps bundle.
If you're new to localizing strings, check out
the rest of our resources that we have online
and the other sessions we have on localization
because a lot of these concepts are shared.
Also, one thing to note is that since you're sending in
this case the localized string key as opposed to the value
across the wire, you want to keep your localized
string key short 'cause that's what counts
against your 256 byte per notiVfication size limit.
As I mentioned you can also customize the View button
but we refer to the View button as the Action button
because tapping that button takes some type
of action such as launching your application.
So if you pass the key, action-loc-key in your
JSON dictionary inside the alert dictionary,
will display whatever the value
that Localizable.string key is
in your current language as the
View button on the iPhone OS.
So say PLAY_KEY maps the Play in the current language
which is English, you will see this alert instead.
But say you are sending notification alerts that are
strictly informative and there is no action to be taken
at all, and you just want to remove the View button.
You can do that by passing the JSON
primitive null, which looks like this,
as the action-loc-key inside your alert
dictionary and you will get this as a result.
So here's a typical JSON payload, it weighs at 150
bytes, pretty standard, all the keys you expect to see
in a normal notification message, even some custom app data.
But by changing our JSON emitter or by simply
stripping the whitespace after we've output the JSON,
we can bring this payload down to 96 bytes, which
is over a 50 percent improvement in space savings.
Now stripping the whitespace helps go a long way
towards avoiding those per notification size limits
in almost every case so we really
recommend that you do this.
So that concludes the device side
of step 3, sending notifications.
Here to talk about the server side
is my partner in crime, Kris Bell.
Thank you.
[ Applause ]
>> Good afternoon everybody my name is Kris Bell.
And for the next 25 minutes I'm going to lead
you through the Apple Push Notification Service
from the perspective of the server itself.
So if you are wondering why SSL certificates are important
to the service or perhaps you are wondering if it's cool
to have multiple concurrent connection
open to the service at the same time,
great because that's what I'm going to talk about.
There's a couple of assumptions that I'm going to make.
First assumption is that as developers you guys
know how to get your application on to the iPhone.
And based on the APIs that Chris Marcellino just talked
about, you know how to get the token from that device,
send it to your content server to register the device.
Now, making those assumptions there are two things you're
going to need in order to be able to talk to the service.
The first one is you will need an X.509 SSL certificate.
You get this from the iPhone Developer Program portal.
If you have one application, you
will have one SSL certificate.
If you have five applications, you
will have five SSL certificates.
There is a one-to-one relationship between
an application and an SSL certificate.
Chris Marcellino just described the message payload, it's a
JSON payload, and I'm going to talk a little bit about that
as we go through and point out some highlights.
So why is an SSL certificate important to the service?
Well, it represents your service identity.
It's unique to your application.
It establishes trust between you as a
developer and Apple, so you should keep it safe.
For example, let's suppose that I'm a developer and have
an application and I have myself a service identity.
Perhaps it would be unwise of me to give my service
identity to my scheming and brooding 13-year-old nephew
who has got an unhealthy appetite for hacking into systems.
Probably it will be also unwise for me to take my SSL
certificate on a little memory stick here and take it
down to the local pub with me, leave it
on the counter after a couple of drinks.
The reason why it would be unwise to do so is the following.
Apple reserves the right to revoke certificates that are
being used to abuse the service, so keep your own safe.
Now as Chris described the message payloads
are JSON and there's a 256 byte maximum.
I'm going to tell you in a moment or two what happens
when you go across, when you go above that limit.
What I'd like to point out with this particular slide is
that you should avoid embedding sensitive
user information in your payload.
It seems obvious but don't put social security numbers
inside your message payloads and like this slide here,
don't put credit card numbers in the payloads.
It's just not a good idea.
[ Pause ]
>> So let's talk about how the service actually operates.
To do so, I'd like to illustrate with what I
think is a killer application for the iPhone.
Let me describe that to you.
So you have an iPhone here and when you touch the screen
in various discreet points and at the same time you blow
into the microphone, the iPhone emits a whole series
of yelps, yowls, yarrs, grunts, burps, belches.
It's awesome, it's a great application
right, it's called iGrunt.
All my friends love it, they think it's fantastic.
Chris Marcellino has it installed
on his phone too, great stuff.
My dilemma though is that I don't know
how to make it better for version 2?
Well one thing I could do is to enable push notifications.
And by doing so I could send a message to
Chris Marcellino, perhaps a really loud burp,
when I know for a fact that he is in an important meeting
with Scott Forstall or perhaps he is having dinner
with his girlfriend's parents or something like that.
That will be great.
I should point out that this is perhaps the most, perhaps
not the most valid use of this service but it's fun.
OK, so the first thing that I would need to
do, I would need to update my application
with the APIs that Chris Marcellino described.
The second thing I need to do is to get an SSL
certificate from the iPhone Developer Program portal.
And once I have my certificate from
the portal it is out of the picture,
it's gone at that point, don't
have to worry about it anymore.
So then I exchange my SSL certificate with the Apple Push
Notification Service and I establish a secure SSL connection
between my server, my iGrunt server and
the Apple Push Notification Service.
Now the phone, the iPhone OS 3.0 also has an appropriate
SSL certificate for the Push Notification Service.
So that when Chris Marcellino turns his
phone on it also exchanges certificates
with the Apple Push Notification Service
and establishes a secure SSL connection.
Great, now at that point my iGrunt server
can start sending messages to Chris' phone.
This is where the interesting thing happens.
How does the phone now which application to associate
with the particular message that just came in?
Well we talked a little bit earlier about
how there's a one-to-one relationship
between an application and an SSL certificate.
There's this little bit of information that's
shared between the application and the certificate
and that information is called a bundle ID.
There is a unique bundle ID for
every application on the phone.
[ Pause ]
>> So you have your certificate, what happens next?
Well you need to open up an SSL connection
to the service as I just described.
The easiest way to do that is to
get up on to the developer forums
and check out all the example code
that those guys have written.
It's fantastic.
Developer forum has been just wonderful.
The guys up there, they've been writing examples
of how to do this in all kinds of languages.
There are examples in Ruby, in Python,
and Perl, in C#, Java, you name it.
There are examples up there in all kinds of language.
Get on-line, check it out, it's awesome.
You can also establish multiple connections
to the service at the same time if you wish.
Now, why would you want to do that?
Well, let's suppose for a moment
you're a big content provider.
You have a big cluster of machines, 30,
40, 50, 100 machines, whatever it is.
It would be inconvenient if each of those machines in the
cluster had to share a single connection to the service.
So if you have a service you have a content
provision in service like that, by all means,
open up multiple connections to the service.
It's not a problem.
However, if you just have the one server,
you really only need one connection.
And the reason for that is that a single connection is
more than capable of consuming all of your uplink bandwidth
to the Apple Push Notification Service, it's very efficient.
Whether you have one connection open to the service or
whether you have 50 connections open to the service,
the important thing to do is make sure you
keep those connections open at all times.
And we'll talk about that a little more in a moment.
So then the next step is to construct your message in the
fashion that Chris described earlier and then you send it
over your open connection, construct another
message and send it over to that connection.
It's really straightforward.
Let's talk about those persistent
connections and why you should keep them open.
Well, the worst thing that you could do to
the service is to open up just one connection,
send one message on it and then close the connection again.
That would be bad and could be
mistaken for a denial of service type.
So keep those connections open.
Now it is possible that the Apple Push Notification
Service might actually sever your connection instead.
When would that happen?
Well let's suppose that you sent a
completely bogus token to the service.
Well, it would cut your connection right at that point.
It's a good indication to you that something went wrong.
Also, if you send a message payload that
is greater than that 256 byte limit,
Apple Push Notification Service will sever your connection.
That's an indication that something is wrong.
Now check that, fix it, and open up the connections again.
There are a couple of exceptions here.
Let's suppose that you're maintaining persistent
connections but you just haven't sent anything over the wire
for an extended period of time, say 2 hours or whatever.
It is possible you could get a TCP/IP timer
and that would also cut your connection.
If that happens then don't worry about it.
Just open up another connection as
necessary and keep the connection open.
Let's talk for a minute about the protocol itself.
It's a binary protocol.
It's very, very high throughput and low overhead
which is great for your servers because it means
that they're used most-- your uplink
is used most efficiently.
There's also a streaming protocol.
And what that means primarily is that
you do not get a response for every-
and each message that you send to the service.
It's very simple format so let's take a look at that now.
It starts off with the 0 byte header.
The next field of interest is the device token.
That is the device that you are going to send a message to.
And the last field up there is the actual JSON payload.
It's a very short one we see up there.
The second field and sorry, I beg your pardon.
The third field and the fifth fields
are prefixed with a 2-byte length field.
It's very straightforward.
Now let's suppose for a minute that Chris Marcellino
really is having dinner with his girlfriend's parents
and he's turned his phone off because he
doesn't want to get any messages from me.
What happens when I send messages to him at that point?
Well, the Apple Push Notification Service has the store
and forward redelivery mechanism and there are a couple
of things that I'd like to press with regards to that.
The first thing is the store and forward
mechanism stores just one message per application.
So if my iGrunt application sends two messages
to Chris' phone and his phone is offline,
only that second message will be retained and
subsequently sent to his phone when it comes back online.
However, if Chris' phone is offline for an
extended period of time, it is possible that both
of those messages that I sent to him will expire.
Another thing that I'd like to press home about
redelivery service is that it is a best attempt delivery.
It's just like SMS in that regard.
And what that really means is that if there's a huge
earthquake and a bunch of hard drives are swallowed
up into this great big hole in the ground then some
of those messages probably won't get delivered.
[ Pause ]
>> So let's just imagine for a moment
that for some unfathomable reason Chris
Marcellino uninstalls my iGrunt application.
What happens when I start to send messages to him?
Well, sadly, I-- the application, my iGrunt
application can't call home and unregister at the time
when it's actually uninstalled because the phone
may be in airplane mode or out of service range.
So what do we do?
The Apple Push Notification Service has
a feedback mechanism that records events
when messages are sent to uninstalled applications.
So you should call this on a regular basis, let's say
once a day or more often and it operates just like--
it operates in the same fashion as when you're
going to-- as when you're going to send messages.
So you connect to it with the same SSL certificate
as you do when you're going to send messages.
The distinction is that you connect to a different host.
Another distinction is that as soon
as you initiate the connection,
the feedback service starts sending data
back to you in the form of binary records.
When it's finished, it will sever the connection.
That's an indication to you of
course that there is no more data.
Let's take a look at that right now.
The first 4 bytes represent a UNIX timestamp.
That is the number of seconds since 1970.
It is anchored to UTC time zone.
The third field represents the device token.
This is the device upon which your
application has been uninstalled.
You should no longer send messages to that device.
It's also prefixed with a 2-byte length field.
Now it's quite possible that you query the service,
the feedback service, and you get no responses at all.
Well, great.
That means that nobody has uninstalled your
application since the last time you queried the service.
OK, now I'm sure some of you in the audience probably
have some questions about the scalability of the service.
Maybe you're wondering how many messages
you can send to it over a period of time.
Well I'd like to try to address that with a short video.
Now it's not necessarily easy to
demonstrate a backend server.
So what we try to do is to get-- give it a face.
And the face that we've given this backend service
is in the form of what you see on the screen.
In fact, there are actually three applications running here.
The first application represents
millions or sorry an emulation of millions
and millions and millions of virtual devices.
There's virtual iPhones, virtual iPod Touches.
The second application represents thousands
of developers like yourselves sending hundreds
and thousands of messages to the service.
>> So let's play that and take a look at what it does.
Now as a message is sent to a particular device, this
third application picks up that message and represents it
as a different color on a particular cube
and then that cube fades away overtime.
So what you're seeing is a bunch of blinking
devices as they're receiving messages.
This is a zoomable application
So as you see as we zoom out of it,
you can see more and more devices.
In fact, if we zoom all the way out, this
rendering starts to take on a more solid form
because there are just so many virtual devices in there.
There's actually about 10 million
virtual devices represented there.
And it's on the order of a million messages
per second being sent to the service.
Now if you as a developer have been using the production
system to send messages for the last few weeks,
then you've been competing with not just one of these
emulations but several of them running currently.
So you've been competing for the attention
of the service with tens of millions
of devices and millions of messages per second.
Now demos are great but the important thing is not
necessarily the demo itself but this critical aspect.
There are no bottlenecks in the
Apple Push Notification Service.
It is-- it has the characteristics of linear scalability
and what that means to you as developers is that as more
and more devices are added overtime as the service
matures, more and more people start using it and more
and more messages are sent to the
system, you don't have to worry
about the performance characteristics degrading overtime.
So with that, I'd like to go through four things that I'd
like you to take away from this segment of the presentation.
The first, of course, is please
maintain persistent connections.
Don't open up a connection, send one message, and close it.
That would be bad.
At some point, somebody would probably
uninstall your application.
Please check the feedback service on a regular basis
daily and check to see if there are any devices
to which you should no longer send messages.
Thirdly, don't send sensitive information,
sensitive user information in your payloads.
Don't send social security numbers,
credit card numbers, and so on.
Last but not least, protect your service identity.
It is your responsibility to ensure that your
service identity is not abused by somebody else.
That concludes the section of the presentation.
I'd like now to hand you back to Chris Marcellino.
Thank you.
[ Applause ]
>> So Kris just covered the server
half of step 3, sending notifications.
So let's talk about step 4.
Step 4 is where iPhone OS receives these notifications
from the service and displays the badges, alerts,
and sounds that you send your notification payload.
So the most important thing to note
here is that iPhone OS does nothing
with the notification if your application
is already running.
This is important.
If your app is already running, you're just going
to get the UIApplicationDelegate application
didReceiveRemoteNotification callback, you should handle--
implement this callback and handle it when you
receive notification so that your UI gets updated
and gives you some contacts of the
notification that was just received.
If you need to update your badge, do so using the
UIApplication application:iconBadgeNumberProperty
because iPhone OS isn't going to do this for you.
Also, play new sounds if you need to 'cause again,
the notification is not processed by the OS
But if your app isn't running and you send an alert in
your notification payload and then the user tabs view
on that alert, iPhone OS will launch
your application and call one
of these two delegate callbacks to
give your application the payload.
But first, if you implement it, it's
application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions,
you'll get the notification payload in the options
dictionary where then you should use it to bring the user
to the part of your application that corresponds with the
alert that they just tab viewed on since you really want
to give them some continuity from the
alert all the way into your application.
Second, if you don't implement that after
your application has finished launching,
we'll call application:didReceiveRemoteNotification
just to give you the alert anyway we can.
So as Kris mentioned the store and forward redelivery
system in the Apple Push Notification Service stores
at most one notification per application.
What this means to you when receiving notifications is that
all of your notification should have the complete state
because earlier notifications that you send
in a series may be overwritten on the service.
So don't send a badge then later send an alert
and expect the badge to always be received
because it might have been overwritten
if the device was offline.
In send, in every alert you send be sure to
send the current badge in every notification
and any alert if you still want them to be displayed.
Don't assume that iPhone OS will
keep your badges around in that case.
For the same reason though, iPhone OS has to assume
that older messages are now obsolete so what it does
to help you is it clears any badges and alerts any time
it receives a notification without an alert or badge key
so it has to assume that notifications may have been
dropped in the meantime and that those are now stale.
This is the same reason that you can't increment
and decrement badges 'cause we don't want to rely
on every notification being received
and you being off by one.
So the take home point here is just send in every
notification the complete state your app has.
We also have some Centralized Settings
in the Settings application
on the iPhone which helps you control a few things.
The first is we have a master switch which
let you disable notifications system-wide
to save battery power, for example.
And secondly, we have per-applications
settings to control sounds, alerts,
and badge occasions on-- and badges on ?FYI basis.
So the switches that you see here though only reflect what
types of notifications that your app elected to receive
at registration time using the UIKit API.
So be sure to pass the right types when
you register 'cause we want the settings
to reflect what your apps are actually capable of to a user.
So let's spend some time to talk about user experience.
I know this is going to be an important
issue with push notifications.
It's key to note that alerts are perhaps the
most intrusive type of notification you can send,
so whenever it's appropriate, please
send badges and sounds instead.
So let's look at each of these types in detail.
Badges, we expect to be the most popular type
of notification that's send across the service.
We think you should use badges for any type of actionable
information that you have like new unread messages,
new friend requests, maybe new status alerts or if you have
a business app, maybe business action items or something.
And because you're doing all of these when your app isn't
running, you need to keep a server-side count of the types,
the number of action items that you
want to display in the iPhone OS.
Now this is where it gets interesting 'cause it's--
generally speaking, you want your app to be able
to work offline if that's something you support,
but you might also have external source
of information so you need a handle
on your server synchronizing all these sources of
truth about the number of remaining action items.
So be sure to test your logic here.
[ Pause ]
>> Sounds are also really important because they give the
user context of the notification that was just received
without actually looking at their iPhone.
It can be in their pocket or in their purse and they'll
know exactly what application just sent them a notification.
Now, think of all the great applications that
have really specific sounds on either Mac
or PC that let's you know exactly what
application that notification is from.
That's the type of sound we want you to use
in your push notification alerts 'cause it lets
users know what app just sent them that notification.
And to be specific these are generally branded sounds,
not really long ringtones or other obnoxious sounds,
something that's short and sweet
and uniquely identifies your app.
Also, since users might be listening to the
iPhone or iPod via headphones or via car stereo,
it's really important that you
use a CDI or quality sound file.
Don't, you know, record in your
garage and have your kids running
around the background screaming,
probably not a good sound file to use.
And finally, alerts.
There is definitely some times
where you do want to use alerts
that are totally appropriate to use alert notifications.
For example, alerts that are totally worth knowing like the
chess match that you are currently playing is now your turn
because your opponent just made a move, or
information that you completely need to know
like this WWDC presentation just changed rooms.
But just the same there's times when you don't want to
use alerts, they're are really bad to be sending alerts
to your users, namely, information that you just don't need
to know like high scores in video games or other gimmicks,
and information that's just strictly
too much like spam, advertising,
and other nuisances that users don't want to see at all.
'Cause if you send these, users are just going to
disable your app, the push notifications for your app
in the Centralized Settings or worse,
uninstall your application entirely.
So don't bombard them with alerts.
>> Couple more best practices before we finish up.
Since the device might be offline or out of service when
you send a notification, and if you send more than one,
earlier notifications might be overwritten
on the service or the user, worse,
might disable notifications for your app and settings.
You have to assume that notification service
won't deliver every message to your phone.
So be sure to connect to your server and pull down whatever
information you need when your application launches.
Don't depend on the service sending
you a reliable stream of data.
Also, every time you connect to your server, be sure to
upload that device token so it doesn't get out of sync due
to some edge cases involving syncing
and backups and restoring.
Also, as I mentioned earlier, don't store that
device token in your preferences or documents.
Get it from the registration API and send it all
the way to your server every time you connect.
So I want to also cover some troubleshooting tips.
We have a great resource for debugging push notification
applications on the iPhone in the iPhone Console.
So in Xcode, if you go to Window menu, Organizer,
choose the current device that you're using,
and then choose the Console tab,
you'll see the iPhone Console.
Here's where we log all sorts of information, errors related
to push notifications like JSON format errors, invalid keys,
keys we can't parse, sound format errors, et cetera.
So this is a great resource for debugging your application.
I want to give you a couple of
examples of errors you might see here.
Here's a typical JSON payload,
has a badge key and a sound key,
but when you send this notification,
nothing happens at all in the iPhone.
Instead of seeing the badge and hearing the sound, nada.
So, of course, you check the iPhone Console
and you see Object value expected for key:
aps; Trailing comma disallowed in object.
Now, what this means is this spurious
comma you left in your JSON payload
which makes this invalid JSON syntaxically per the standard.
iPhone OS can't parse it.
So what I got to do is remove that comma, resend
your notification and it starts working again.
You get your badge and your sound, problem solved.
So let's look at one more example.
Here's another typical JSON payload
but this time no trailing comma
which give you a badge and branded sound this time.
But when you send this notification, you see the
badge and you hear a sound but not your branded sound.
Instead you hear the system-wide default sound
So you look in the iPhone Console
and you see this error message.
No remote notification alert sound
file found for 'soundfileA.aiff'.
Playing default sound.
So you look in your application's build directory in
your Xcode project, you see the sound file in there,
everything looks fine but still no, you know, sound.
What you might not know though is that
iPhone OS uses a case sensitive file system.
So since the case in the notification payload is
different from the case of your sound filename
in your applications bundle, iPhone
OS can't find the sound file.
So simply by correcting the capitalization that matched,
your problem is solved and you hear your branded sound file.
Couple more troubleshooting tips.
So that first error that we looked at is completely
avoidable if you use a JSON to create your payload--
sorry, JSON library to create your payloads.
Don't try hard recording at JSON or writing your own JSON
emitter because there are so many libraries either free
or built-in to the various languages that you
are going to use that can do this for you,
and having a library to do it is much more future proof
and easier to code with and avoid debugging hassles.
If you need resources for where to get
these JSON libraries, check out JSON.org.
They have tons of information and
information about the specs.
As I mentioned in the previous slide, use
the console for debugging your applications.
And finally there's one more thing we have for you today.
You may have noticed that when debugging your application
after launching it from a URL such as from a web browser
from another application, you might have found it hard
to debug what happens right after application launch
because you weren't the one launching your application.
Well we have this same problem in
iPhone OS 3.0 with push notifications
when you're launching your applications
from the View button and alert.
The Xcode team has added a new feature to iPhone OS 3.0 to
help you debug these situations and here to demonstrate this
as well as to show you how to create a simple remote
notification app, is my teammate Justin Santamaria.
Thank you.
[ Applause ]
>> Thanks Chris.
Hi, my name is Justin Santamaria and I'm an
iPhone Applications Engineer for the iPhone team.
I get the honor today of giving
a demonstration about what Chris
and Kris have been talking about for the past hour or so.
So, when I found out I was going to do this demo I had
to think about what kind of service I was going to do.
I think one of the great uses of the push notification
service is going to be chat style applications
or status update services and I was-- decided
to write my own service but I kind of think
that the general ones are kind of locked up.
There are some big players already.
So I thought, you know, what do I like to do?
Well, I like to complain and I like to complain a lot.
And I was talking to my friends and it turns out that
they like to complain too though they may not admit it.
So what I did is I wrote an app called
Squawker and I like to show you that now.
So I'm going to go ahead and launch
this app and give you a quick tour.
So here we do, we have the main screen here and we
have what you'd expect from status update applications.
We've got an icon, we've got a
name, the latest status, and a date.
No one is in a good mood today, it
looks fine but that's the point.
We can go ahead and select the name here.
We're going to select Chris and we see a nice big icon
for him, some bold text there with his latest status
and the date and some history down there
of things he's squawked about before.
Was there potato salad at lunch here?
All right, so very simple application.
It's only a couple of view controllers and I'd
like to show you what's under the hood here.
OK. So like I said, we have a couple of view controllers.
We have the root view controller and the detail view
controller that showed these two panels of the application.
Now I'm not going to go into the view controllers right now.
You can go ahead and check it-- and check the labs
throughout the conference as that's a big part
of the iPhone OS view controller structure.
What I am going to do is go ahead and
quickly peruse this account object.
Now this account object is a thing
that connects to my Squawker server
and it has username and password information.
It also can get updates free for an
account which means it gets the list
of the people I'm listening to squawk and whatnot.
So it's important to note that for the purpose of this demo,
this is the code that your app currently
has when communicating to your service.
And now what I'd like to do is to take this
app and enable push notifications for it.
[ Pause ]
>> So I'm going to go ahead and go
to the application delegate here.
In this case it's the Squawker App Delegate.
Get a bigger view here.
And we're going to notice there are a couple of methods.
The one in particular that I'm interested
in is application didFinishLoading.
Right now, it's pretty basic stuff.
It simply sets up the window and whatnot
and then instantiates my model object,
the account, and goes ahead and updates the account.
In order to enable push notifications here all
the first thing I need to do is go ahead
and register for remote notification types.
Now in my particular app I thought about it and I
definitely want to sound because I want you to be able
to hear it if it's in your pocket or purse.
I did a badge because it'd be nice to have an
unread count of squawks and you know what it's--
if I'm complaining I want to know-- I want you to know
what I'm complaining about when I complain about it.
So I went ahead and I put in an alert.
So it's going to show right up there
whenever someone squawks in my list.
Now as a result of this, I'm going
to get one of two callbacks.
The first one is the application
didRegisterForRemoteNotificationsWithDeviceToken.
And again the argument is in NSData structure.
Now this is that opaque piece of data
that you need to send to your server.
So the particular call here account send
not-- remote notifications to device--
SendRemoteNotificationsDeviceToken is a piece of code
that you're going to have to write that you put--
that it puts the device token up to your server.
The second method is the failure case, application
didFailToRegisterForRemoteNotificationsWithError.
Now again, you're app should still function perfectly well
if you're unable to register for remote notifications.
So all I've done here is go ahead
and print a log so that I can go
to the console and see what's wrong if I ever hit this.
And just a reminder, you will hit this if you run it in the
Simulator since push notifications aren't supported there.
Another application delegate callback
that I might be interested
in is the application didReceiveRemoteNotification.
Now as Chris mentioned earlier if your applications running
and we received a push notification for your application,
the iPhone OS will not do anything with that
but pass it directly to your application.
That means no badge is going to be updated, no sounds
going to be played and no alerts are going to be shown.
Instead, this message is going to get
invoked on your application delegate.
And in this case all I'm doing is telling my model object
to go ahead and hit the server and update the account.
>> So, you need to think about what's appropriate
for your application and go ahead and do that.
So we have the basic methods here that allow us to
receive and respond to remote notifications as well
as register, but I want to get slightly fancy here.
I think it would be great that when I
got a squawk from a given individual,
if I could go straight to that person's detail view
and I could see their large icon and their history.
So what I can do is instead of using
application didFinishLaunching,
I can substitute that with application
didFinishLaunchingWithOptions.
Now what this does is it provides an optional--
another dictionary called the Launch Options Dictionary
and in there is a dictionary that represents the
payload directly from the push notification server.
Now with that, I can go down here and after
I've done my usual registrations and whatnot.
Oops that-- it scrolled up a little.
That's good.
We can go ahead and grab that push dictionary
out of the Launch Options Dictionary
with the key UIApplication launch
options remote notification key.
Now when is this dictionary here?
This dictionary is present whenever
the user clicks on the action--
not clicks, taps on the Action
button for a push notification alert.
It's not going to be there if there's a badge there,
a sound played and the user tapped on the icon.
It's only there from an alert.
And what I've done here is I go ahead and set up my
view, detailed view controller, set up its internal state
and go ahead and put it on the view controller stack
and again that's just view controller
stuff that you can check out later.
Finally, this particular method,
a launch application with options,
application didLaunchWithOptions returns the bullets
as supposed to a void so I go ahead and return yes.
So what I'm going to do now is save my
project, build it, try to install it here.
OK, now I'm going to stop it because I actually
want a push to come through when it's time.
OK, so I'm going to wait for a squawk.
[Squawk] Now that's a branded sound.
Let me tell you.
Well Chris, it's a little late to be
regretting things and I'm sorry about that.
But I'm going to go ahead and click Tab View here
and I'm going to launch my application oh, but wait.
It didn't go to the detailed view controller.
So, in the past it's been kind of tricky to
debug because you weren't able to attach Xcode
to a process that was launched externally.
You might have run into this if
you're using custom URLs in the past
or if you just wanted the user
to tap and then start debugging.
But Xcode actually has a new feature
that I'd like to show you now.
So I'm going to go back to the main screen
of Xcode and I'm going to go these groups
and files column and I'm going down to executables.
And then I'm going to the executable
and question, in my case it's Squawker.
I'm going to hit command "I" which allows me to get info.
The third tab is the Debugging tab and
there are two interesting options here.
The first one is start executable
after starting the debugger.
Now this particular option is the behavior that
you and I are both familiar with with Xcode today.
This means that when you click on Debug in Xcode,
Xcode will launch the application and
immediately attach to the process.
This second thing is what we're interested in today.
Wait for next launch/push notification.
Now what this does when you tap debug on
Xcode is Xcode does not launch the process.
Instead Xcode waits for the next
particular launch of that process
and then attaches once it sees that it's been launched.
If you're familiar with DDB this is similar to wait for.
So I'm going to go ahead and select that.
I'm going to ahead and break where I think
I might be having a problem, which is here.
I'm going to switch to this bigger view for you.
So I've broken here.
I want to see what's in that dictionary.
And I'm going to go ahead and click Debug.
And what's going to happen is instead of launching the
application we get a dialog waiting for Squawker to launch.
The debugger will attach to the
process the next time it is launched.
And so I'm going to go ahead and switch back to
the phone and we're going to wait for a squawk.
[ Pause ]
[ Squawk ]
>> Now, I'm going to dignify that.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm
going to switch back to the demo machine.
So you can see what happens with Xcode when I tap view.
So I'm going to do that right now.
The dialog disappears and sure enough we
break right where we set that break point.
[ Applause ]
>> So I'm going to go ahead and bring up the Debugger
Console here and I'm printing out that push dictionary.
And sure enough we have APS here with
the alert, the badge, and the sound
and among the custom keys we have this
key value pair squawker equals Chris.
But if we notice, the squawker in this case is lowercase
but in my code I have an uppercase S that I'm looking for.
So in this particular case the fix is trivial.
I'm going to go ahead and make that lowercase.
Demo bugs are always easier.
Go ahead and build it.
[ Pause ]
>> I'm going to go ahead and cancel 'cause
I'm feeling pretty good today and go back
to the app and wait for last-- one last squawk.
[Squawk] Well I'm finishing up, I promise and I'm
going to go ahead and tap view here and voila,
we went straight for the detail view controller.
[Applause] Thank you.
[ Applause ]
>> So this particular feature of Xcode
as well as push notification services--
the push notification service really enables
a whole new type of application experience
and I'm really excited to see what you guys come up with.
Thank you very much.
[ Applause ]
>> Thanks Justin.
So if you need more information, please contact our
Evangelist Matt Drance or check out the great documentation
that we have on-line at developer.apple.com.
We have a push notification service program and guide
which is awesome as well as human interface guidelines
that have been updated for iPhone
OS 3.0 and the push service.